[Music]
so you'll wake up one morning and an owl
brings you know not an acceptance letter
to Hogwarts but an invitation have
afternoon tea with Her Majesty the Queen
of England herself
oh my aren't you the special one well
you ready
me I'd be asking what kind of t-shirt to
wear to this soiree with her majesty
but again that's probably why I won't be
getting an invitation now have you
learned all the do's and don'ts of
royalty protocol let's do it this way if
everything's going fine you'll see a
green flash and when you see a red flash
oh I hope that won't happen because it
means you've made a huge blunder uh-oh
not off to a good start it's 4:15 p.m.
and your invitation set for it's not
okay to be late for a tea party with her
Highness now if this were high tea you'd
be just fine
this early dinner is served at five pm
and normally includes a meat dish as for
afternoon tea it's served at around 4
o'clock and isn't just a snack but also
a social affair that means get ready for
plenty of etiquette rules oh and those
ripped jeans Chuck's an old Pink Floyd
t-shirt you're wearing just because
there was no exact dress code on the
invite doesn't mean you can dress the
same way you do when you go to the
grocery store on Sundays anyone who's
about to meet the royal family is
supposed to wear something right for the
occasion smart casual or business casual
will be just fine so let's change into a
pair of dress shoes a nice white shirt
and some crisp pants for ladies it'd be
a dress that covers the knees you better
get going oh it's the Queen she doesn't
look so happy
toldja you shouldn't have been late sup
Liz no no no show some respect
good afternoon your majesty well done
that's the right way to address her when
you see her for the first time
now that you've greeted her you should
start calling her ma'am
but never ever by your first name looks
like it's time to sit down don't forget
to put a napkin on your lap Code Red
I know it's tempting to put milk in
first but you'd be breaking a tradition
that goes back to the 18th century back
then
English Potter Josiah Spode started
making cups out of animal bone to
withstand any heat ever since then the
British elite and royalty pour the tea
not milk first to show their status
going the other way is reserved for
those who fear their cups will crack
when at a royal tea party do as the
Royals do so start with sugar if you
need any then fill the cup up to about
3/4 using a strainer it's placed over
your cup for that reason just don't
forget to take it off before taking a
sip you might like teabags for
convenience but don't expect to see any
at the palace the Queen prefers Earl
Grey or Assam leaf tea now step 3 add
some cold milk to your cup ah well done
now that there's milk and sugar in your
tea you want to stir it oh no not like
that don't make a little whirlpool in
the cup by stirring the tea in circular
motions you need to stir it back and
forth from 12 to 6 if you imagine it
like the face of a clock yep just like
that but no clinking the sides when
you're finished stirring put the spoon
on the saucer by the back side of the
teacup time to raise the cups oh no
everything is flashing red again as much
as you want to warm up your hands don't
wrap them around your teeth the proper
way to do it is to hold the loop of the
handle with your index finger and thumb
mm-hmm your middle finger should support
the bottom of the handle Oh put your
pinkie down for goodness sake everyone's
giving you weird looks
British Royals really don't stick their
pinkies up to show how posh they are I
even heard extending it is a pretty rude
gesture so yeah tuck it in oh great
something's wrong
I see I know this saucer looks fantastic
it's the most exquisite pottery and
everything but please leave it on the
table it's only okay to hold it together
with the cup when there's no table in
front of you like when you're standing
don't sweat it too much I'm sure they
know you're a newbie to this there's no
such thing as insignificant details at
this gathering so make sure the cup
handle is pointing in the right
direction before anyone notices it's not
when the cup is on the table it should
always point to the three of your
imaginary clock if you're left-handed
you can relocate it to the nine o'clock
for convenience time for another sip Oh
Code Red when drinking focus on the tea
cup don't look over it around the room
yes Buckingham Palace is gorgeous and
you're so excited to be right here
across the table from the Queen but your
eyes poking up from your cup come off as
very rude look into the cup I know it
seems like a picky detail but it's quite
useful you're minimizing the risk of
spilling the tea on yourself or this
expensive tablecloth and don't slurp or
gulp it down as you lift your cup take
just one sip and then carefully put it
back and stop blowing on it if it's too
hot just wait for it to cool down that
fine lady in a pink hat is asking you to
pass your cup to her so she can refill
it oh let's try it again as you pass the
cup leave it on the saucer this is how
you do it and now comes the most
exciting part food it's served on a
pyramid of three tiers
the golden rule here is hey drop that
cooking
first comes sandwiches then scones and
only then all those sweets it's okay to
go with your fingers the sandwiches
you'll see at a royal tea party will be
bite-sized and without crusts why no
crusts well it's a tradition but some
people also say the Queen likes to avoid
unnecessary calories whenever she can
Her Majesty's personal favorites are
with fillings of cucumber smoked salmon
egg
mayonnaise or ham and mustard there's
also a sweet option crustless jam
Hennings
those are raspberry jam sandwiches no
bigger than an old English patty whoa
man pace it out a little
don't vacuum everything down your gullet
slow careful and proper okay we've all
finished our sandwiches it's time for
scones
now don't call them scones oops sorry
unless you want to upset the Queen it's
pronounced sky use a butter knife to cut
it so you don't get crumbs everywhere
there's been a historical debate between
the two English counties of Devon and
Cornwall as to what to put on your scone
I mean Scott first clotted cream or
strawberry jam clotted cream the name
just kills it for me diplomatic as she
is Her Majesty does Jam first when she's
in Cornwall and cream first when she's
in Devon as for her own tea parties she
puts jam on first so just do what she
does so the top of the pyramid is where
you'll find the sweets crispy cookies
strawberry tarts honey and cream sponge
and many other kinds of cakes all
gorgeous and fancy as can be I see that
look in your eye
remember keep it slow and neat it looks
like the party is coming to an end to
wrap it up take the napkin off your lap
and leave it to the left of your cup and
saucer well done I think you shocked Her
Majesty there a few times but I can tell
she noticed your progress okay chances
are slim that you'll ever get to have
tea with the Queen herself but you can
practice and take pictures with a
lifelike wax figure of Queen Elizabeth
the second at Madame Tussauds in London
you'll get served real food tea
everything and all according to the
rules of etiquette and the Queen's
personal preferences the setting looks
exactly like a garden on the grounds of
Buckingham Palace and you can even hear
royal corgis playing nearby so honestly
do you think you could remember all
these rules and have tea with the Queen
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend now here are some other cool
videos I think you
joy just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life